Core architecture:::::::::::::::::

region is a collection of datacentres: East US, canada central, west EU, Aus east, Jap west. 54 regions and 140 countries
within region many datacentres are connected with a low latency network
due to flexibility of regions users are closer to data centres. regions offer compliance
Azure AD, traffic manager and DNS are not region dependent.
some services and VMs are available in certain regions

region pairs: every region is paired with another as per geography. only brazil is paired outside of geo
provides physical isolation - mostly 300 miles separation- natual disaster, power outage etc can be hedged
some services are auto replicated. updates are rolled out to pairs sequentially

availability options: SLA diff
99.9% - VM
99.95% - availability sets
99.99% - Availability zones. This is highest

Availability sets
Fault domain - physical separation
update domain - isolation through software by updating sequentially

minimum 3 availability zone is provided

Resource group is a container for multiple resources for ease of management and lifecycle. Billing, monitoring, policy deployments etc can be done by res group
every resource must exist only within a res group. cannot used by all res groups

resource manager helps auto deployment and management of resources


Aure compute::::::::::::::::
computing resources like cpu, disks, memory, networking etc. provisioned in mins
VMs, linux, win server, SQL server, SAP etc

VM: logical physical server, RDP acces
VM scale set : identically configured VMs, true euto-scaling can be done
APP services : is a PaaS
Functions: code only solution. tasks can be configured using this.


Container services:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Containers are virtualization environments. However, no need to manage OS like in VMs
this is a PaaS offering.
AKS - azure kubernetes service is also a container service

Azure networking::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;
Virtual network - used to connect VMs seamlessly. within or outside regions can be securely connected
Load balancer - scale apps with high availability, inbound and outbound support
VPN gateway - connect azure and on prem app
web load balancer - based on web trafic route to certain IP. includes firewall
content delivery network - cache content and physically place content closer to the server

